this is a reaction video most reaction
videos are like dumb mainstream
Hollywood movies or TV show there's
nothing this is a reaction video to a
political document a PDF signed by about
30 people 35 people some of that former
members of the activist Network direct
action everywhere I have a whole
playlist of videos on this channel
talking about the politics of direct
action everywhere
to what extent it's a good thing or a
bad thing for veganism etc so my
girlfriend your just said to me I will
probably have more to say about this
than she doesn't this video I feel like
I already said everything I had to say
about the right to action if we're it's
a playlist you can click below you can
check it out I mean some of my videos
about them are intelligent some of them
are less intelligent gonna say it like
every video I made about the most great
but I've had some intelligent things to
say I feel like I saw this coming I
called this years ago and that this is a
pulp so ok the document is a mutiny
document about trying to change the loot
trying to kick out the leaders if your
actors never and for that purpose
stating what kinds of things they've
been doing wrong what the problem is
leadership have been it's kind of kind
of stays we have to make these changes
or else yeah old to pay well the problem
is if you making the organization if you
walk out in certain organization
promised money and the one word you will
not find in this document is money
I think this talking was honest about
many things but money was not one of
them right so I mean all these
disgruntled people who hate the
leadership ready action ever why don't
they just walk down the street start a
new organization oh right you're right
going allocating money for court fees
right and the other one was that move to
Berkeley campaign right so how do people
to Berkeley and then found that they had
difficulty paying for housing
well they move to Berkeley in order to
be a part of this movement or to be part
of its steering committee or part of an
executive level and once you move there
you find
surviving in Berkeley California it's
not so easy so I obviously I don't think
there was just for thought put into that
like what was the responsibility the
organization you know are you just
inviting someone in the sense that you
invite a friend oh hey I'm moving to
Berkeley so you should move or were you
actually kind of destroying people's
lives
they were coerced or you know they were
they were promised compensation well it
was clear from documents a whole that if
you didn't move to the San Francisco Bay
Area your opinion couldn't count you
couldn't have control so I don't know if
I'd say coerced but anyway now I mean
okay so one thing it's not that I'm so
money it's also not honest many people
involved with TXE have talked to me
about the cult-like aspects of the group
so the emotional aspects and I don't
even fault them for that I've talked
about that in this channel for years -
right I talked about like you know you
have people willing to make financial
service sacrifices willing to make
financial sacrifices for a certain kind
of lifestyle to be in a certain kind of
community and then you start getting
cold like aspects that creep in and I
consider things you know what I mean and
remember these are these are real people
so we got we're doing this live stream
and people are agreeing yeah Berkeley is
really expensive but anyway look I
remember I watched documentary about a
hindu cult group so they were white
people who converted to Hinduism in the
United States and won that cult finally
fell to pieces and was shut down and
when it all fell apart one of the things
they said in interviews was look we made
all these sacrifices just to live in a
community of like-minded people they
just wanted to be other around other
people that's a powerful thing for most
human beings of course when kids are
involved and workers involved and
money's involved you know you want to
raise your kids or on other people with
the same values and whether that's
because you're a white person who
converted to Hinduism or veganism or
whatever it is so I actually say that
well simply I don't use it as like a
shallow insult to say that well
cult-like elements you give people
something to believe in they start
believing in it they start committing
their time and effort and money and you
start getting some cult like yeah one of
the main problems mentioned in that in
that section was that the chapters that
the former members were part of members
were part of to end they moved to
Berkeley the those former chapters
disintegrated after they love but yeah
there were the other thing that is kind
of quote like is the love bombing yes
that's a cult term sure I had not heard
of it but basically when there's
conflict or somebody has a complaint
waingro would talk to them and say hey
Todd let's talk as a friend and or or
they would he would compliment them and
you know say what a great contributor
they're the movement but in reality he's
trying to get a confession out of them
that he can use to kick them out of the
group or condemn them or yeah um look I
do not think Wayne Siong is very bright
I don't and my opinion of his
intelligence is partly based on his
recordings podcasts videos but it's
mostly based on reading his essays
reading his writing and most of the
behavior they tribute to Wayne here I
don't really think of as kind of like
manipulative or scheming I just think
it's stupid and it's my it's my opinion
and the stupidity of this group which I
took the series as a warning years ago I
said look they are lying to you and they
are lying to themselves in claiming the
what he's in charge they claimed they
had horizontal leadership and that
nobody's in charge and the first crack
in that facade was when they had this
sexual exploitation what's the worse
candle sexual assault scandal okay now
what actually happened with this scandal
we're never gonna know right like yeah
but there's no point in us talking about
there are insiders you know the whole
thing but there was there were a number
of scandals and the hilarious thing to
me was at that time they were so
maintaining this facade that nobody was
in charge they would even response
because I was talking I was trying to do
interviews with leaders and they were
right back and said look I'm interest
talking to leaders of the group on my
youtube channel positively you know and
the rep I can say there are no leaders
and this is not a group they would say
direct action everywhere is a fully
horizontal Network and that's all it is
so like a Facebook group nobody's in
charge nobody's a leader nobody's a
follower that's this kind of claim that
it's just people communicating who all
happened to be vegan activist and as
soon as the sex scandal happened it was
you have to be blind they said they were
immediately said no no no don't worry we
have this hierarchy we have some people
who are leaders and some people who are
followers some people are in charge and
these people will have to answer for
their misconduct to those people and so
this whole bureaucratic top-down
structure was revealed that apparently
before they'd been in denial about you
know so to me at that stage everything
that's wrong this organization is
obvious and also it really is a one-man
dictatorship or life organization Wayans
Young is the dictator and his girlfriend
priya is the network she's referred to
as the mother of the organisation on
their websites and so on the momma bear
the organization nobody elected them and
they just had so just a couple of days
ago less than two weeks ago they had
elections that this document explains
were rigged or supported or not
legitimate not against the rules
they broke they broke their own rules so
keep in mind we're not we're not
applying United Nations standards here
or something
DXE broke their own rules their own
procedures in terms of this election
yeah yeah you're supposed to announce at
two weeks and in advance this one was
only one week in advance we didn't have
all the members it was a private meeting
you guys can read the PDF if you want to
know every detail but yeah this yeah and
also Dwayne had kind of shut down every
possible source of debate including
shutting down email groups
he had prevented other people from
running against him in the election they
had refused to allow people to have the
status of so-called global members which
is basically their Parliament level
their height their executive level
members so there was a lot of bullying
intimidation and as they say here overly
centralized control but this is coming
from a musician that used to deny look
though the thing with denial yeah that's
parallel with just that the issue of
finances with them just denying and
there have been these debates on the
Internet in podcast format or what have
you would they just deny that money is
an issue and you know even in his debate
with Gary France aione
he just said no no there is no money
nobody donates anything in France he
only said backed and what are you
talking about I've been to your website
there's a big red button that says
donate now and they receive donations
from peda people people with Ethical
Treatment of Animals and then they deny
that they've received the donations and
nobody knows where the money goes
nobody's honest
who's getting paid they do not have a
form 990 the only if you're an American
citizen do you know the term form 990
but in general charities post public
information in terms of form 990 you
actually don't have to if you're below a
certain number of hundreds of thousands
of dollars per year but still it's
expected that charities have that type
of public accountability and they do not
and I've written to them asking for it
and I had a wrote to an insider who I
knew through Facebook and asked her look
take this to Wayne take this to
leadership why is there nothing like a
formula why is something resembling it
like maybe not every detail but where is
the money coming from where is it going
who's making a salary under this and who
isn't because I don't even resent that
Wayne makes a salary out of this I think
most people donating money to this group
accept the idea that the leaders make a
salary but you should have the same
transparency that that petaa has peda
has that level of transparency so yeah
and this document as a measures were
honest so many things but not one so I
was already sorry I said before I feel
like I don't have a lot to say because I
said it and I saw it all coming I think
I mean for both of us I've talked about
in this channel for years activism means
different things to different people and
for me right now one form of activism I
can do is publishing a children's book
to parole veganism it shows very clearly
explicitly about veganism we're getting
an illustrator we're getting a publisher
and we're doing the whole the whole nine
yards for a lot of people in their minds
Street protests are kind of the sign of
purity in activism we saw you looking at
stuff like Julie carb strong it's a lot
of unexamined adulation for the street
protest but what this shows is there's
nothing pure about that they lied also I
already had videos of us they lied about
arrests we have videos and websites
where they claim nobody's ever been
arrested which is a lie people are
getting arrested in the United States
hiring a lawyer to plead your case is
not cheap of whether it's criminal
charges or otherwise there are people
facing the legal consequences of DXE
products of direct action over protests
and in at least one case that we know
about shall we say through it's from the
horse's mouth
from people talking to us somebody was
promised by the repetition of aware that
the organization would pay for their
illegal fees and then the organization
did not do so now I don't want to
speculate as to why other people have
told us speculation as well but
regardless of the reason even if there
were good reasons which I doubt that
that that's destroying people's lives I
mean long story short this work was so
you participated in this protest for
veganism now you're bankrupted trying to
pay for your own legal defense writing a
children's book as advantages it's
pretty clear from this document you know
what they allege makes it clear that
it's not legit form of we think an
organization emergent leadership what
what is emergent leadership it means
nobody has a clear explanation for why
Twain is in charge or why Wayne can
utilize early you know shut things down
and cancel things and whatever yeah so
if you say democracy everyone knows what
the market means you say transparency
and accountability we know what those
things mean but emergent leadership
seems to be a kind of 21st century
fashionable term for nobody knows why
some people are more important than
others it just emerged that way yeah all
right so I find that very menacing yeah
and how we basically ousted people who
could have been in leadership roles that
threatened his you know credibility I
guess well you know but bottom line you
know I've said before people think about
stupidity like an obstacle like a rock
on the road like something you got to
move around or deal with and stupidity
is not something inert and heavy and
immobile
I think stupidity is something
fast-moving and destructive and
dangerous it's less like a rock on the
road it's more like a fire in an office
waste paper basket you know if you don't
manage it and control it sudden like
it's a control people like Wayne from my
perspective are dangerous not because
they're evil and not because they have
bad intentions I really don't I think
Wayne has good intentions I really do
you know I don't think he was scheming
any of this stuff like he brewed
this document each one of these
ridiculous conflicts I'm sure he was
thought he was doing the best for the
for the organization and for veganism
therefore nails he's stupid he's stupid
and stupidity is dangerous and when you
have stupidity in a position of power
and authority unquestioned Authority
Authority people can't question Kenny
it's really dangerous and things go down
don't know quick the the great thing is
I said this in criticizing txt and of
another heading before you know I said
well why would you protest the Bernie
Sanders lecture yeah you know what I
mean why not write your own lecture hall
have your own life you don't mean this
this kind of thing this is a feature of
democracy
disrupting yes I've had film clips of
that on my channel both Sanders and
Hillary yeah yeah another thing people
were going to jail for the Nathan's hot
dog eating contest right yeah they were
saying that that didn't get as much
attention as what was happening in the
Berkeley yes just because of their focus
in their social media group on Berkeley
who's who's gonna make that decision
right I mean you can who decides what's
on the YouTube channel yeah I mean
that's ultimately what that's about
right so people want to feel famous i
I'm not even hating but that's obviously
in the 21st century if you have a
political group of that size those are
gonna be this who's on the Instagram
page who's on the YouTube channel how
you gonna decide that through emergent
leadership yes I'm sure for a lot of
people that's a real dispute they say
hey I've worked really hard to make this
day of action this protest this event or
maybe it's okay so I went to prison
because of this event I didn't even get
on the YouTube channel sure
I mean cell rapes but I that would
really create bitterness and meanwhile
some other event that happened to be in
Berkeley California is on the YouTube
channel on Instagram and it's they
didn't do as much work people will
resent the hell out of that so yeah
that's a real 21st century activism
problem that's not in what was that book
Sol olinsky's most for radicals rules
for radicals does not cover how to run
your YouTube page your social media you
don't give aid yeah yeah but obviously
some of the conflicts with this about
this kind of stuff anyway if the leader
of an organization is stupid what we
have here in this
cumin is evidence of an attempted coup
d'etat attempted mutiny against the
leadership but most of the time people
just vote with their feet you just say
okay well I'll join peda instead I'll
start my own organizations there's
people that you know they basically
Zoe's that were kicked out so easily
there were they didn't have a choice
Wayne kicked them out yeah anyway look
I'm you know uh so what what this is
like the tragedy of veganism is to 2017
you have 1,000 isolated angry
individuals at keyboards making angry
comments on Facebook and the question is
how can you organize them into groups of
10 or 20 or 50 or 100 or a thousand and
actually make something positive and the
answer is not this direct actually
everywhere is is an example I think an
instructive example of how not to do it
how you should do it would be a topic
for for another video but la I said this
in other videos who was giving someone
specific specific advice on a specific
group okay and I can see my own
experience when I was in Victoria's in
Victoria there was a small vegan
activist group and I really did disagree
with leadership on things but the
leadership I recognized they had done
all the hard work to build up this group
so I wasn't gonna try to take it away
from them or challenge them for me I was
like okay look I got it both with my
feet excited I said look basically the
guy who's the dictator for this group he
he's the one putting in all the long
hours so I'm you know I'm not gonna try
to take his take his position away from
him or even challenge his voice in this
group he wants to act out his little
power trip fantasy let him do it
I got you know we'll just walk away but
sure for some people DXE is the only
game in town so that if they walk away
they're all alone there wasn't some
other activist group for them too or if
they're kicked out and shunned and bad
but it was talking about gas lighting
and stuff to talk about
you know bad basically bad-mouthing
people
group because it looks like they have
chapters all over you know yeah at the
bottom of the PDF there were a lot of
signatures in a lot of different cities
so I don't know this is basically
bad-mouthing the leadership especially
Beverly the three people in charge of
the top obviously a lot of people with
good into what we talk to that one guy
via Skype or would I read you know he
quit two years ago though because he saw
how the group was getting worse and
worse but sure a book put it this way
I'm sure for a lot of activists DXE will
be a formative influence in their lives
even if they were involved for only a
few weeks or a few months and then quit
where they look at that and probably
true positive lessons from it and
negatives
I'm sure for a lot of people pedo was
like that probably some people were
involved with petaa for only a few
months and then said wow they don't want
to be involved you know but for some
people coming up I've just I said I
could never be a member of a group like
that where I regard the leadership as
stupid and dangerous that's how I regard
Wayne's Young and everything I read from
including his essays and his debates
with Terry Francona and stuff I I can't
do it you know what I mean
and as I say I it's to me like I don't
mean it just as like a lo caddy personal
and so there's like no this is a real
problem you know you have to have
leaders who are reliable and accountable
and intelligent and admirable you know
its leadership in something like
veganism it's it's demanding in some
ways and not another look I've said in
other videos too like we got a stop
feeling sorry for ourselves
unlike the leaders of the lotion
revolution none of these people are
living in caves wings Young is is living
in Berkeley California I think in luxury
I don't think any these people are
living in poverty or living in the
jungle or living in a cave or what have
you
none of them you know none of them are
suffering they always like to compare
themselves this is the founding mandate
of DXE they compare themselves to the
abolition of slavery leaders of those
kinds of movements well you didn't fight
in a civil war you know your heart you
aren't fighting in a slave rebellion and
like the rebellions in the history of
Haiti or something no you know keep it
in perspective all this is kind of you
know kids stuff compared to real
political movements and there's your the
world but sure nevertheless for the role
the leader
it can't be Wayans young it can't be
Gary Yourofsky it
can't be durianrider these these really
are the examples we've been dealing with
so whatever the features whatever the
way is to get vegans to move past
isolated individuals to groups of 10 20
50 100 eating this and hey look let's
let's throw in the positive contrast
meanwhile quietly PCRM Physicians
Committee for Responsible medicine
they're taking over they're winning
they're taking over the world maybe
they're taking over the future of the
movement guys like John McDougall
quietly they're not in the street
protein it's just a different paradigm
and they're making they're making a big
difference making an impact so I do hope
people learn from what the positive and
negative of direct action everywhere but
let's also learn from PCRM let's learn
from John McDougall let's learn from the
whole range of what's going on just the
last 10 years and for me you guys can
check out the playlist you won't hear
more but yeah long story short I do see
to our connection everywhere is much
more of a negative example than a
positive one that's a wrap